README.md, before:

How to build
============

*Starting with development of version 4.0, Hibernate uses [Gradle](http://gradle.org) as its build tool.*

This README describes some of the basics developers and contributors new to Gradle need to know to get productive quickly.

Quickstart
----------

     git clone git://github.com/hibernate/hibernate-orm.git
     cd hibernate-orm
     ./gradlew clean build
     
If you are having problems with unresolved dependencies you need to configure access to the JBoss Nexus repository
(see below).


Resources
---------

### General

* [Building Hibernate ORM](https://community.jboss.org/wiki/BuildingHibernateORM4x)

### JBoss Nexus

* [JBoss Nexus User Guide](http://community.jboss.org/wiki/MavenGettingStarted-Users) - explains how to set up _~/.m2/settings.xml_ to use JBoss Nexus repo.

### Gradle

* [Gradle User Guide](http://gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/userguide_single.html)
* [Gradle DSL Guide](http://gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/index.html)

Executing Tasks
---------------

Gradle uses the concept of build tasks (equivalent to Ant targets). You can get a list of available tasks 
via 

    gradle tasks

or if using gradle wrapper

	./gradlew tasks

### Executing Tasks Across All Modules

To execute a task across all modules, simply perform that task from the root directory.  Gradle will visit each
subproject and execute that task if the subproject defines it.

### Executing Tasks In Specific Module

To execute a task in a specific module you can either:

1. `cd` into that module directory and execute the task
2. name the "task path".  For example, in order to run the tests for the _hibernate-core_ module from the root directory you could say `gradle hibernate-core:test`

### Common Java related tasks

* _build_ - Assembles (jars) and tests this project
* _buildDependents_ - Assembles and tests this project and all projects that depend on it.  So think of running this in hibernate-entitymanager, Gradle would assemble and test hibernate-entitymanager as well as hibernate-envers (because envers depends on entitymanager)
* _classes_ - Compiles the main classes
* _testClasses_ - Compiles the test classes
* _jar_ - Generates a jar archive with all the compiled classes
* _test_ - Runs the tests
* _uploadArchives_ - Think Maven deploy
* _install_ - Installs the project jar to your local maven cache (aka ~/.m2/repository)
* _eclipse_ - Generates an Eclipse project
* _idea_ - Generates an IntelliJ/IDEA project.
* _clean_ - Cleans the build directory

Commit message:

Make it clear that changes are released under LGPL

README.md, after:

License
=======

This repository houses minor changes to the hibernate library.  These changes are released under LGPL v2.1 (the same license as the hibernate library itself).

How to build
============

*Starting with development of version 4.0, Hibernate uses [Gradle](http://gradle.org) as its build tool.*

This README describes some of the basics developers and contributors new to Gradle need to know to get productive quickly.

Quickstart
----------

     git clone git://github.com/hibernate/hibernate-orm.git
     cd hibernate-orm
     ./gradlew clean build
     
If you are having problems with unresolved dependencies you need to configure access to the JBoss Nexus repository
(see below).


Resources
---------

### General

* [Building Hibernate ORM](https://community.jboss.org/wiki/BuildingHibernateORM4x)

### JBoss Nexus

* [JBoss Nexus User Guide](http://community.jboss.org/wiki/MavenGettingStarted-Users) - explains how to set up _~/.m2/settings.xml_ to use JBoss Nexus repo.

### Gradle

* [Gradle User Guide](http://gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/userguide_single.html)
* [Gradle DSL Guide](http://gradle.org/docs/current/dsl/index.html)

Executing Tasks
---------------

Gradle uses the concept of build tasks (equivalent to Ant targets). You can get a list of available tasks 
via 

    gradle tasks

or if using gradle wrapper

	./gradlew tasks

### Executing Tasks Across All Modules

To execute a task across all modules, simply perform that task from the root directory.  Gradle will visit each
subproject and execute that task if the subproject defines it.

### Executing Tasks In Specific Module

To execute a task in a specific module you can either:

1. `cd` into that module directory and execute the task
2. name the "task path".  For example, in order to run the tests for the _hibernate-core_ module from the root directory you could say `gradle hibernate-core:test`

### Common Java related tasks

* _build_ - Assembles (jars) and tests this project
* _buildDependents_ - Assembles and tests this project and all projects that depend on it.  So think of running this in hibernate-entitymanager, Gradle would assemble and test hibernate-entitymanager as well as hibernate-envers (because envers depends on entitymanager)
* _classes_ - Compiles the main classes
* _testClasses_ - Compiles the test classes
* _jar_ - Generates a jar archive with all the compiled classes
* _test_ - Runs the tests
* _uploadArchives_ - Think Maven deploy
* _install_ - Installs the project jar to your local maven cache (aka ~/.m2/repository)
* _eclipse_ - Generates an Eclipse project
* _idea_ - Generates an IntelliJ/IDEA project.
* _clean_ - Cleans the build directory
